docs/smart_app_launch/master02-overview.adoc, before:

= Overview

== Background

*SMART* stands for “Substitutable Medical Applications and Reusable Technologies”, a healthcare standard through which applications can access clinical information through a data store. It was initially proposed by https://smarthealthit.org/[SMART Health IT^] project and was later on specified as {hl7_fhir}/smart-app-launch/[SMART on FHIR^], a protocol which works on top of {hl7_fhir}[FHIR APIs^]. The specification builds on {ietf_html}/rfc6749[OAuth2^] and {oidc_authentication}[OpenID Connect (OIDC)^] which are industry standards for authentication and authorization, and allows 3rd party apps to seamlessly work with any EHR system that implements the protocol.

== Glossary

[width="100%",cols="2,2",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Term | Definition
|Vendor | An entity that provides software to end-users.
|Application | Software developed by a vendor designed to work with the CDR and/or Launcher built by the same or another vendor. This is also known as the "client" in terms of OAuth roles.
|CDR | A system consisting of an openEHR Clinical Data Repository and a FHIR Server, providing openEHR REST APIs and FHIR APIs. This is sometimes also known or mentioned in the SMART on FHIR as the "EHR system".
|OAuth2 Server | An authentication and authorization server that provides APIs consistent with the OAuth2 framework specification and the SMART on openEHR protocol.
|Launcher | User facing software built by the CDR vendor that serves to launch other applications within a context of a Patient or Practitioner. This can be the main EHR system. (i.e. a Portal) or a separate application.
|EHR | A (session) context that relates to an {openehr_rm_ehr}#_ehr_package[openEHR `EHR` container^] and the associated Patient. This indicates the subject on which the Application will work. Notice: this should not be confused with what SMART on FHIR uses to name "the system" providing FHIR APIs.
|=======================================================================

== Why SMART on openEHR?

A popular vision nowadays is considering that a single software vendor cannot provide all the necessary tools and software for a healthcare system while still maintaining a high level of quality and a low cost of ownership. Independent vendors who focus on a specific topic or problem to be solved may have an edge over monolithic "suites" of software that try to do everything.

In practice, this requires applications from multiple vendors working together to provide a complete solution, often named "best-of-breed". This is currently done is by long, tedious manual "integration" phase where the vendors work together to make their software work together - a very expensive process and is a major barrier to entry for new vendors.

The SMART specification aims to solve this problem by providing a standard way for systems and applications to work together, as it defines a contract between the _Application vendor_ and the _CDR vendor_. This contract covers the following requirements:

- The _Application_ should have the ability to be hosted on a domain owned by the _Application vendor_
- The _CDR_ should have the ability to be hosted on a domain owned by the _CDR vendor_
- The _Application_ needs a way to discovery API services offered by the _CDR_
- The _Application_ needs a way to authenticate with the _CDR_ to access the APIs offered by the _CDR_
- The _Application_ needs a way to understand the "context" their app should open in by letting the _CDR_ handle EHR and Episode selection
- The _Application_ needs a way to embed within the _CDR_'s user interface while maintaining the "context" to provide a seamless user experience

The *SMART on openEHR* specification aims to be backward compatible with {hl7_fhir}/smart-app-launch/[SMART on FHIR^] while making this protocol work also with {openehr_its_rest_releases}[openEHR REST APIs^] and more other APIs. It is meant to describe a framework and associated for the following aspects:

* <<_application_registration,Application Registration>>
* <<_service_discovery,Service Discovery>>
* <<_authentication_authorization_and_scopes,Authentication, Authorization and Scopes>>
* <<_context_selection,Context Selection>>
* <<_embedded_iframe_launch,Embedded iFrame Launch>>

== Requirements

The {openehr_rm}[openEHR Reference Model^] and openEHR REST APIs provide a foundation for interoperable _Applications_. For such applications to be truly portable between systems and vendors, there is a requirement for a uniform _authentication_ and _authorization_.

Many of such applications also function in the _context_ of a single EHR or Patient, and potentially of a single Episode. Selection of this _context_ also becomes essential before lunching the _Application_.

Commit message:

replacing CDR term as Platform

docs/smart_app_launch/master02-overview.adoc, after:

= Overview

== Background

*SMART* stands for “Substitutable Medical Applications and Reusable Technologies”, a healthcare standard through which applications can access clinical information through a data store. It was initially proposed by https://smarthealthit.org/[SMART Health IT^] project and was later on specified as {hl7_fhir}/smart-app-launch/[SMART on FHIR^], a protocol which works on top of {hl7_fhir}[FHIR APIs^]. The specification builds on {ietf_html}/rfc6749[OAuth2^] and {oidc_authentication}[OpenID Connect (OIDC)^] which are industry standards for authentication and authorization, and allows 3rd party apps to seamlessly work with any EHR system that implements the protocol.

== Glossary

[width="100%",cols="2,2",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Term | Definition
|Vendor | An entity that provides software to end-users.
|Application | Software developed by a vendor designed to work with the Platform and/or Launcher built by the same or another vendor. This is also known as the "client" in terms of OAuth roles.
|Platform | A system consisting of an openEHR Clinical Data Repository (CDR) and a FHIR Server, providing openEHR REST APIs, FHIR APIs and potentially other APIs. This is sometimes also known in the SMART on FHIR as the "EHR system".
|OAuth2 Server | An authentication and authorization server that provides APIs consistent with the OAuth2 framework specification and the SMART on openEHR protocol.
|Launcher | User-facing software built by the Platform vendor that serves to launch other applications within a context of a Patient or Practitioner. This can be part of the Platform (i.e. a Portal) or a separate application.
|EHR | A (session) context that relates to an {openehr_rm_ehr}#_ehr_package[openEHR `EHR` container^] and the associated Patient. This indicates the subject on which the Application will work. Notice: this should not be confused with what SMART on FHIR uses to name "the system" providing FHIR APIs.
|=======================================================================

== Why SMART on openEHR?

A popular vision nowadays is considering that a single software vendor cannot provide all the necessary tools and software for a healthcare system while still maintaining a high level of quality and a low cost of ownership. Independent vendors who focus on a specific topic or problem to be solved may have an edge over monolithic "suites" of software that try to do everything.

In practice, this requires applications from multiple vendors working together to provide a complete solution, often named "best-of-breed". This is currently done is by long, tedious manual "integration" phase where the vendors work together to make their software work together - a very expensive process and is a major barrier to entry for new vendors.

The SMART specification aims to solve this problem by providing a standard way for systems and applications to work together, as it defines a contract between the _Application vendor_ and the _Platform vendor_. This contract covers the following requirements:

- The _Application_ should have the ability to be hosted on a domain owned by the _Application vendor_
- The _Platform_ should have the ability to be hosted on a domain owned by the _Platform vendor_
- The _Application_ needs a way to discovery API services offered by the _Platform_
- The _Application_ needs a way to authenticate with the _Platform_ to access the APIs offered by the _Platform_
- The _Application_ needs a way to understand the "context" their app should open in by letting the _Platform_ handle EHR and Episode selection
- The _Application_ needs a way to embed within the _Platform_'s user interface while maintaining the "context" to provide a seamless user experience

The *SMART on openEHR* specification aims to be backward compatible with {hl7_fhir}/smart-app-launch/[SMART on FHIR^] while making this protocol work also with {openehr_its_rest_releases}[openEHR REST APIs^] and more other APIs. It is meant to describe a framework and associated for the following aspects:

* <<_application_registration,Application Registration>>
* <<_service_discovery,Service Discovery>>
* <<_authentication_authorization_and_scopes,Authentication, Authorization and Scopes>>
* <<_context_selection,Context Selection>>
* <<_embedded_iframe_launch,Embedded iFrame Launch>>

== Requirements

The {openehr_rm}[openEHR Reference Model^] and openEHR REST APIs provide a foundation for interoperable _Applications_. For such applications to be truly portable between systems and vendors, there is a requirement for a uniform _authentication_ and _authorization_.

Many of such applications also function in the _context_ of a single EHR or Patient, and potentially of a single Episode. Selection of this _context_ also becomes essential before lunching the _Application_.
