docs/smart_app_launch/master04-registration.adoc, before:

= Application Registration

An _Application_ needs to first register itself with the _CDR_ that it needs to integrate with. This process involves the followings:

- The _Application_ registers with the _CDR_ by providing the appropriate ID, OAuth2 Scopes, Launch Contexts, Domains, Redirect URLs (`redirect_uri`) etc.
- The _Application_ obtains credentials like the `client_id`, JSON Web Keys or  `client_secret` from the _CDR_ for authentication and authorization.

While this process could be formalised and automated using protocols like {ietf_html}/rfc7591[OAuth2 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol^] in the future, the current recommendation is to do this out-of-band in a way that makes sense for the Application Vendor and the CDR Vendor. For example, the CDR vendor could offer a Registration Page that Application Vendors could use to register their applications, and can have an approval and audit mechanism before applications are registered.

For compliance and consistency reason, the _Application_ should also have a valid registration according to {hl7_fhir}/smart-app-launch/app-launch.html#register-app-with-ehr[relevant FHIR specification^] for this process.

Commit message:

replacing CDR term as Platform

docs/smart_app_launch/master04-registration.adoc, after:

= Application Registration

An _Application_ needs to first register itself with the _Platform_ that it needs to integrate with. This process involves the followings:

- The _Application_ registers with the _Platform_ by providing the appropriate ID, OAuth2 Scopes, Launch Contexts, Domains, Redirect URLs (`redirect_uri`) etc.
- The _Application_ obtains credentials like the `client_id`, JSON Web Keys or  `client_secret` from the _Platform_ for authentication and authorization.

While this process could be formalised and automated using protocols like {ietf_html}/rfc7591[OAuth2 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol^] in the future, the current recommendation is to do this out-of-band in a way that makes sense for the Application Vendor and the Platform Vendor. For example, the Platform vendor could offer a Registration Page that Application Vendors could use to register their applications, and can have an approval and audit mechanism before applications are registered.

For compliance and consistency reason, the _Application_ should also have a valid registration according to {hl7_fhir}/smart-app-launch/app-launch.html#register-app-with-ehr[relevant FHIR specification^] for this process.
